---
layout: page
date: 2024-04-14
title: About the Count
featured_image: /assets/img/about-banner.webp
---

[Dr. James P. Howard, II](https://jameshoward.us), is a distinguished
mathematician, statistician, and an advocate for environmental conservation. His
work spans various government agencies, including the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Executive Office of the President, and the United States
Department of Homeland Security, where he has applied his expertise in data
science and public policy to address complex challenges. Before these roles, he
served as an internal consultant on scientific computing, enhancing the
capabilities of national economic and security systems and contributing to a
range of high-stakes initiatives.

## Biography

Born in 1979 in Dayton, Ohio, Dr. Howard embarked on an academic journey
characterized by breadth and rigor. He studied mathematics at the University of
Maryland, College Park, and studied environmental science at the Johns Hopkins
University, and explored public policy at the University of Baltimore. His
pursuit of interdisciplinary knowledge culminated in a doctorate in public
policy from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, where his research
focused on the economic implications of the National Flood Insurance Program.
This academic foundation has profoundly shaped his multifaceted career.

Throughout his career, Dr. Howard has remained at the dynamic intersection of
technology, policy, and education. He has spearheaded groundbreaking research
projects on blockchain technology, augmented reality, and public health,
contributing significantly to both theoretical advancements and practical
applications. His development of the R package phonics underscores his
commitment to creating innovative tools for data analysis, extending their
utility across a wide range of fields.

In public service, Dr. Howard's tenure on the Board of Appeals for Howard
County, Maryland, showcased his dedication to responsible governance and
community engagement. His contributions to the Maryland Defense Force and the
Howard County Charter Review Commission further exemplify his unwavering
commitment to public service. His leadership in these roles has been marked by
efforts to promote transparency, independence, and sound decision-making in
governance.

## Academic Contributions

A passionate educator, Dr. Howard has imparted his extensive knowledge of
mathematics and statistics at the University of Maryland Global Campus
since 2010. His teaching portfolio spans institutions such as the City
University of New York and the University of New Mexico, where he has also
taught public affairs. These experiences reflect his broad expertise and
enduring commitment to fostering informed and engaged citizens. Dr. Howard's
innovative approaches to education have made him a respected figure among both
students and peers.

Dr. Howard is a prolific author, with notable works including *Teaching and
Learning Mathematics Online*, *Handbook of Military and Defense Operations
Research*, *Computational Methods for Numerical Analysis with R*, and
*Socioeconomic Effects of the National Flood Insurance Program*. His scholarly
contributions have earned him fellowships with the British Computer Society, the
Cybernetics Society, the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, and the
Royal Society of Arts. Additionally, he is a Senior Member of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 

## Personal Life and Interests

Married to Nina Basu, Dr. Howard is deeply integrated into his community in
Maryland, where he actively participates in local governance and conservation
efforts. His interests span a wide range of areas, including environmental
advocacy, community development, and public service. Dr. Howard's remarkable
career and dedication to public service, education, and environmental
conservation reflect his enduring commitment to making a positive impact on
society and the planet. As the Count of Krigsvold and Baron of Matikonis, he
continues to leverage his vast knowledge and experience to champion causes that
promote sustainability, equity, and progress.
