---
title: Privacy Policy
description: The privacy policy for the  website
layout: text
featured_image: /assets/img/privacy-policy-banner.jpg
---

Welcome to the Count of Krigsvold ("we," "us," "our"). We are
committed to protecting your privacy while you use our website
(https://krigsvold.org). This Privacy Policy outlines the types
of information we collect from our users ("you," "your") and how
we use, share, and protect that information. By accessing and using
our website, you agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy.

## Information We Collect

### Google Analytics

Our website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service offered
by Google that tracks and reports website traffic. Google Analytics
uses "cookies," which are text files placed on your computer, to
help the website analyze how users interact with the site. The
information generated by the cookie about your use of the website
(including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by
Google on servers in the United States.

Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your
use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website
operators, and providing other services relating to website activity
and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to
third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third
parties process the information on Google's behalf.  How We Use
Information

The information collected by Google Analytics is used to analyze
the use of our website, identify trends, administer the site, and
gather demographic information about our user base as a whole. We
do not use Google Analytics to collect any personal information
about you.

## Sharing of Information

We do not share, sell, rent, or trade any information collected
through Google Analytics with third parties for their promotional
purposes.  Data Protection

We take reasonable measures to protect the information collected
through Google Analytics from loss, theft, misuse, and unauthorized
access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction.  Your Rights

Depending on your jurisdiction, you may have certain rights regarding
your personal information, such as the right to access, correct,
or delete the information we hold about you. To exercise these
rights, please contact us using the contact information provided
below.

## Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update this Privacy Policy from time to time to reflect
changes in our practices, technology, legal requirements, and other
factors. We encourage you to review this Privacy Policy periodically
to stay informed about our collection, use, and protection of your
information.

## Contact Us

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy or our treatment
of your information, please contact us at info@basuhoward.org.
